PORT SECURITY (HUB): Extension of ACL

A] Prevent Network Flooding (Dynamic MAC Learning with Port Security)

Objective: Configure port security to allow only one device (MAC address) per port to prevent network flooding if more devices are connected.

Commands:

1. Enter the interface to enable port security:
   SW1(config)# interface fastethernet 0/1

2. Set the port to access mode (required for port security):
   SW1(config-if)# switchport mode access
   Note: The interface should belong to a VLAN for access mode to work.

3. (Optional) Manually assign a specific MAC address for security:
   SW1(config-if)# switchport port-security mac-address <mac-address>
   If not used, the switch dynamically learns the MAC address of the connected device.

4. Set the maximum number of MAC addresses allowed (in this case, 1):
   SW1(config-if)# switchport port-security maximum 1

5. Define the action to take if the security violation occurs:
   SW1(config-if)# switchport port-security violation shutdown
   - Shutdown: The port is disabled (default behavior).
   - Restrict: The port continues to function but logs the violation.
   - Protect: The port drops packets from violating MAC addresses without logging.

Behavior:
- If more than one device attempts to connect to the port (e.g., two MAC addresses), the port shuts down.
- The port remains in an "error-disabled" state and must be manually re-enabled using:
   SW1(config)# interface fastethernet 0/1
   SW1(config-if)# shutdown
   SW1(config-if)# no shutdown


B] Prevent Communication Between Specific Devices (Protected Ports)

Objective: Configure protected ports to block traffic between specific devices.

Commands:

1. Enter the interface of the switch connected to the first device (e.g., a laptop):
   SW1(config)# interface fastethernet 0/2

2. Configure the port as protected:
   SW1(config-if)# switchport protected

3. Enter the interface of the switch connected to the second device (e.g., a server):
   SW1(config)# interface fastethernet 0/3

4. Configure the port as protected:
   SW1(config-if)# switchport protected

Behavior:
- Traffic between protected ports is blocked, but they can still communicate with other unprotected ports.